---
title: UI Struggles with Sveltekit and TailwindCSS
template: post
date: 2023-02-18
slug: ui-struggles
---
Progress has been very slow recently. In starting the web application front end, I have discovered that I am very much a back-end developer. I simply don't enjoy front-end development. A huge part is of course my inexperience. And trying new frameworks and tools - like Sveltekit and TailwindCSS - certainly hasn't helped.

Previously I've just written plain Javascript and HTML when building web pages, and relied on a CSS library like Bulma to do the heavy lifting of page layouts. This time I wanted to stretch myself, a little, and adopt a reactive javascript framework ([Sveltekit](https://svelte.dev/)) and I've heard lots of good things about [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/).

It hasn't gone well. Sveltekit itself seems quite straightforward, though I find the documentation a bit lacking. It doesn't provide any pre-built UI components, so I've been trying a library called [tw-elements](https://tailwind-elements.com/) to bridge that gap. It starts OK but I am finding, again, the documentation is very poor, and the useful functionality seems hidden away. For instance, here's a snippet on how to declare and trigger a modal dialog box:

```html
<button
    type="button"
    data-bs-toggle="modal"
    data-bs-target="#save-dialog"
    disabled={!formIsValid}
    class="... tailwind styles here..."
    >Save</button>

<-- modal... ->
<div class="modal ... tw styles here..."
    id="save-dialog"
    ...
</div>
```

That single HTML attribute `data-bs-target` connects the 'Save' button to the 'save-dialog' modal (the div with the `modal` class). It's neat and avoids manual Javascript.

But now I need some additional behaviour to happen _before_ the dialog pops up. And I cannot for the life of me find the documentation to support that. What little I have found is in github commit logs for features which I don't think has been released yet. So much so that I have [raised an issue with the developers](https://github.com/mdbootstrap/Tailwind-Elements/issues/1367). The _tw-elements_ library seems to be a rebadging/repacking of another library originally written for a different CSS framework, so perhaps I am just stretching my luck.

The other challenge is getting into the _svelte_ way of thinking. I am not good with reactive programming. I still think in very procedural and object-orientated ways.