---
title: Adding Templating
template: post
date: 2023-01-07
slug: adding-templating
---
Now that I have a basic flow of upload markdown > extract metadata > send SQS message > convert to HTML > write to 
destination bucket, I think it's time to add some basic templating so that I can create a more realistic website.

For _Bascule_ I used [JKnack Handlebars](https://github.com/jknack/handlebars.java) for the templates - I'll likely do the same again, but first a little 
research. 
Alternatives include [KorTE, from the maker of the KorGE game engine](https://docs.korge.org/korte/), [Liquid](https://github.com/bkiers/Liqp), [Moustache](https://github.com/cashapp/barber) and more. I am looking for an 
engine with a native Kotlin or Java implementation, a fairly plain syntax, and few dependencies. I'd also like one 
under active development, and documented.

I will reject purely logic-less templating with Moustache, as I feel they are too limiting. Bigger engines like 
_Thymeleaf_ are much more than I need. So I think it's between _Handlebars_ and _KorTE_. 

In _bascule_, I wrote two extension functions for _handlebars_ - a date/time formatter, a complicated pagination 
helper, and a modified forEach loop. 

Given my familiarity with Handlebars, and the lack of documentation around _KorTE_, I will stick with what I know.

One open question - is templating a separate step from markdown processing, or does it all go together?

- All-in-one: Simplest, logical. Makes for a bigger lambda function though, might start to get too heavy.
- Distinct step: more functions, more queues required. But could allow fragments of HTML to be reused? Probably 
  slower, with the reliance on the queue? Where might these fragments be stored?

I really need to start thinking about the project-wide metadata too, and building the project tree/hierarchy, for 
navigation purposes.

Going with distinct, it is more micro-service-y and makes for smaller lambdas. I'll start by moving the output of 
the markdown processor back to the source bucket.

## How will I know when it's done?

How do I know that the processing of _all_ the uploaded files is complete? How, indeed, do I know that there have 
been multiple files uploaded at all?

Even the development process is a little odd - there's no UI at all. All I do to test is upload a markdown file to 
S3, then watch the logs, the message queues, and check the output file in the bucket...