---
title: Starting the web front-end
template: post
date: 2023-01-31
slug: starting-web-front-end
---
Oh boy. I've put this off long enough. Time to start the web front end.

Task number one - choose a web front-end framework. In previous projects, I've just stuck to writing plain Javascript, and I have avoided frameworks and big libraries as much as possible. But I don't think that's sustainable, and I really do need to learn this modern Javascript world. Candidates include _React_ - the big fish in the pond - _Angular_, _Vue_ and _Svelte_. There are dozens of other alternatives, of course.

I'm discounting _React_ immediately, I think it's ugly, weird and created by evil Facebook. Once I would have chosen _Angular_ - it's what we use at work - but I think it's pretty hard to read, and created by evil Google. I've briefly dabbled with _Vue_, but I've heard good things about _Svelte_ so I'm going to try that out. But _Svelte_ or _Sveltekit_ - the documentation doesn't make it very clear which of the two best suits my needs. I know that I absolutely do not want a _NodeJS_ server running in the background. I believe I can configure _Sveltekit_ to generate "static" content, so I'll experiment with that.

It's a massive learning curve though - I'm not familiar with most of the terminology these frameworks use, I don't know Typescript, I barely know Javascript at times. It's hard for me to even google a sensible question as I don't know what I'm asking for.

## Structure concerns

My project structure file has needed some tweaks (simplifications, really). But I have a more serious concern - the structure file is updated when a markdown file is uploaded to the source bucket. When multiple files are uploaded at once, there's a bit of [a race condition](/a-file-upload-locking-issue) and now the structure file becomes inconsistent, and usually missing some of the entries. I will need to change my approach to this, perhaps by adding a new SQS queue `updateStructure` (tough I am not sure if lambda will read all the queue items one-by-one, or try to run processes in parallel to consume the queue as quickly as possible.)

I definitely need to write an API to force a complete rebuild of the structure file too. Right now, to fix it I have to delete the file manually, then upload the markdown files one-by-one.

I am also increasingly worried that the lambda startup time is too great - fetching the structure file can take a long time, nearly a minute it seems.

## Structure concerns update

I've decided not to automatically generate the structure file whenever a markdown file is uploaded. Instead, I've created a new API route which regenerates the entire structure json file. It seems to be working well. I'd also like an API route to update the structure file for a given source (patching in, really), and also one to delete a source, so I don't have to rebuild it all by scanning the source bucket each time. But that's a task for another day.
