---
title: Serializing Failures
template: post
date: 2023-01-21
slug: serializing-failures
---
My initial success with _lambda-kotlin-request-router_ has come to crashing end. While I was able to use the library for the simplest of calls, as soon as I started a 'real world' example (fetching my project structure class), it failed with a serialization error.

My structure class uses the `kotlinx.datetime` library to manage dates, but the router library is using a serialization framework called _Jackson_ which, by default, doesn't understand that date format (even though it uses the underlying `java.time` classes on the JVM). As I'm unfamiliar with _Jackson_, I thought I'd try converting it to use `kotlinx.serialization` instead, a framework I'm more familiar with.

Attempting to make that change has been very painful, to the point of failure. It's very hard to retrofit a library someone else to wrote to make it work the way I would like. I'm not even sure converting _Cantilever_ to Jackson instead of `kotlinx.serialization` would help, and that's not an approach I want to take anyway.

Just for reference, here's the error message:

```json
"errorMessage": "Java 8 date/time type `java.time.LocalTime` not supported by default: add Module \"com.fasterxml.jackson.datatype:jackson-datatype-jsr310\" to enable handling (through reference chain: org.liamjd.cantilever.api.controllers.Result$Success[\"value\"]->org.liamjd.cantilever.models.Structure[\"layouts\"]->org.liamjd.cantilever.models.Layouts[\"templates\"]->java.util.LinkedHashMap[\"templates/post.html.hbs\"]->org.liamjd.cantilever.models.Template[\"lastUpdated\"]->kotlinx.datetime.LocalDateTime[\"time\"]->kotlinx.datetime.LocalTime[\"value$kotlinx_datetime\"])",
  "errorType": "com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.exc.InvalidDefinitionException",
```

I think my experiments with _lambda-kotlin-request-router_ have come to an end. I'm not sure what the next step is, except maybe writing my own router inside Cantilever "inspired" by this library?

It has been said (by me) that I'm putting off writing any sort of UI work, and while there is some truth in that, any UI needs an API to call. No router, no API. No serialization, no router.

The only other task I think I could work on for Cantilever would be building an `index.html` file and navigation functions, and I'm really not sure how I'm going to start that yet.
